Add initial documentation for the helm-charts-hardened chart (#290)
spiffe/spiffe.io: content/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-about/exposing.md

---
title: Exposing Services
short: Exposing Services
description: How to expose SPIFFE/SPIRE services outside of Kubernetes
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 150
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/exposing
---

> 

Author: ```suggestion
# Default

```

```

Example: Overriding the spire-server-federation host to be `example-fed.my-domain.com`

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
 federation:
   ingress:
     enabled: true
     host: example-fed.my-domain.com
```

# SPIFFE OIDC Discovery Provider

The most likely service you will want to expose outside the Kubernetes Cluster is the the SPIFFE OIDC Discovery Provider.

In order to check the integrety of a JWT, an external service needs information about the server used to sign the
JWT. This info can be retrieved from the SPIFFE OIDC Discovery Provider. It will need to be exposed to any other
service needing to validate JWT's.

# SPIRE Server

When setting up a Nested SPIRE installation and you have child SPIRE instances in other clusters, you will need to
expose the Root SPIRE instance outside the Kubernetes cluster. You can do this like:

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
spire-server:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
```

# SPIRE Federation Bundle Endpoint

When setting up Federation, you need to expose the bundle endpoint outside the Kubernetes cluster so other SPIRE
instances can contact it.  It will not work without enabling Federation as well. Please see the

> [Federation documentation](/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-architecture/federation/) of the Helm Chart for

Reviewer: This link is broken, I think it should be
```suggestion
[Federation documentation](/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-advanced/federation/) of the Helm Chart for
```

---
title: Exposing Services
short: Exposing Services
description: How to expose SPIFFE/SPIRE services outside of Kubernetes
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 150
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/exposing
---

> # Default
> 
> By default no services are exposed outside the Kubernetes cluster.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

By default no SPIRE services are exposed outside the Kubernetes cluster. The below sections cover how to expose them.

```

Author: This looks good but removes a link to show this being Default behavior. Should we leave that part in?

Reviewer 2: ok with me

| SPIRE Server                     | spire-server.ingress                   | spire-server.$trustDomain            |
| SPIRE Federation Bundle Endpoint | spire-server.federation.ingress        | spire-server-federation.$trustDomain |
| SPIFFE OIDC Discovery Provider   | spiffe-oidc-discovery-provider.ingress | oidc-discovery.$trustDomain          |

## Experimental Services

| Service Name                     | Value                                  | Default DNS Name                     |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| Tornjak Frontend                 | tornjak-frontend.ingress               | tornjak-backend.$trustDomain         |
| Tornjak Backend                  | spire-server.tornjak.ingress           | tornjak-frontend.$trustDomain        |

# Ingress Controller Support

We have tests for ingress-nginx based Ingress Controllers and the Ingress Controller built into OpenShift.

For ingress-nginx, set `global.spire.ingressControllerType=ingress-nginx`

For OpenShift, set `global.openshift=true`

> Any other Ingress Controller is unsupported, but the chart can be configured to use them anyway. Set the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other Ingress Controllers may work but are untested and unsupported. Set the
```

> `ingress.annotations` values as appropriate for your Ingress Controller. Please consider letting the team know what
> options you needed to use so support for your chosen Ingress Controller can be added in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ingress.annotations` values as appropriate for your Ingress Controller. Please consider [submitting a PR](https://github.com/spiffe/helm-charts-hardened/pulls) if you're able to get another Ingress to work.
```

# Generic Ingress Config

> Each Ingress that is enabled `ingress.enabled=true` will by default virtual host with a dns name like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Ingress that is enabled by setting `ingress.enabled=true` will by default create a virtual host with a DNS name like
```
